Friends here our concert is
different instructions or commands to write or create a Docker file.
C, we are on the way to create docker file,
but before going to create or write your Docker file,
we have to know different instructions are commands.
No, let me go with them one by one.
The very first instruction is from.
And using this from instruction,
we can mention the base image for our custom image.
Be clear.
This is mandatory and must be the first command in your Docker file.
Then next one is maintainer.
So using this, we can write the name and email address of the image creator.
Anyway, this is optional if you want, we can use it.
Next one is run.
So using R1, we can execute any command, our Linux command,
and we can save that result as a new layer in our custom image sc agenda.
We how to create a container from some image,
but that image should have a let say,
some package called in the next.
So if your base image is not having package called Engineers,
then using this run command,
we're implementing your Docker file.
We will do something like run yum install in Unix.
So that in Unix package will be added as a layer on top of your base image.
So that from that custom image,
whenever if you launch your container,
it will get automatically engineer package.
So simply to execute your commands in your image,
we are using R1 instruction.
Then copy, actually for copy without two types of instructions.
One is copy and second one is ad.
But there is a difference between copy and add.
Simply if you take copy that copy instruction,
we copy a file from your source.
Source here is nothing but your Docker host.
A file or directory from your Docker host into your image.
But if you go with add,
it will do same as your copy.
Along with that, we can directly download some file with URL.
And that file you can copy it into your Docker image.
Not only that, we can also extract tar file and then we can copy
that into your Docker image with the help of ADD instruction.
Anyway, we will see by implementing our custom images with the help of Docker file,
then command, see, it can be
used for executing a specific command within the container. Be clear.
Whenever if you write some commands with the command instruction,
those commands will execute within the container.
So after creating our image,
custom image, we will launch container.
So inside of a container,
if you want to execute any command,
then we will use this command as the instruction to execute your commands.
Then how entry point as well.
See, it sets a default application to be
used every time a content is created with the image.
So actually there is a small confusion between commander entry point,
but I would clarify that while implementing our Dockerfile based on requirement,
I will take command as well as entry point.
And sometimes both we will take.
Then ENV, simply a neuron meant just to set
some environment variables for your container from your custom image.
Next, expose.
See, it associates a specific PO2 to
enable networking between the containers and the outside world.
Then user.
It sets the UID or username,
which is to run the container.
Then volume.
It is used to enable access from the container.
We had directory on the host mission.
So as of now we don't know about volumes concept.
So you may get confused here.
So simply remember that there is an instruction called volume.
Next work directory C.
It said the path where the command defined with the command is to be executed.
Then label.
It allows you to add a label to your Docker image.
So custom labels we can add using this label instruction.
Then onboard a command that is triggered when
the image in the Docker file is used as a base for another image.
Here.
You may not understand about volume or generically label an unbuilt,
but we will see them when implementing our custom images.
But for time being, just remember the names of your Docker file instructions or commands.
So while implementing our Dockerfile based on requirement,
you will be good with these instructions.
Okay?
Okay, guys, thank you for watching this video.